# 8(a) Program Digital Service Initiative 

Agencies are under pressure yet willing to utilize digital services.  Program offices are frequently frustrated by long procurement lead-times, competition requirements, and lack of adequate coaching around new implementation methods, which slows down the successful adoption of modern technology at agencies.  

The use of SBA’s 8(a) program can solve many of these problems.  The 8(a) program can get requirements on contract quickly with a sole source procurement of up to $4 million dollars in value.  It also provides agencies a perfect, low-risk gateway to accelerated acquisitions and product delivery. There are a number of vendors existing in the SBA 8(a) program with significant experience implementing modern technology and digital services.  However, agencies hesitate to use the 8(a) program due to concerns about the repetitive acquisition requirements.  This results in a missed opportunity to use a fantastic government program and get digital solutions into citizens’ hands faster.

This initiative clarifies that procuring agencies which award digital services requirements through the 8(a) Program need not request release from 8(a) competition when awarding digital service developmental iterations or add-on services.  SBA believes that each iteration or add-on is a distinctly new project and should be treated as a new requirement for purposes of 8(a) release requirements.  As such, agencies are permitted to award contracts for additional development utilizing different acquisition strategies (to include non-8(a) strategies) without requesting release from 8(a) competition.  
